slug: darwin1995-07.md
jinja-title-full: 1995 Darwin Award: Whitewater Floaters

jinja-summary: Whitewater Floaters: Arkansas | Tenacity is often advantageous to an organism. But combine tenacity with a lack of common sense and an excess of bravado, and the trait may prove deleterious.	Ten inches of rainfall had flooded Big Piney Creek over its banks...">

jinja-keywords:
jinja-tags: "weather,boat,macho">

jinja-modified:

jinja-og-image: https://darwinawards.com/i/death_ponders.jpeg">

jinja-authors: Wendy

jinja-date: 1995 Darwin Awards


jinja-title: Whitewater Floaters


jinja-confirmed:
jinja-status: draft
<TABLE border=0 align=right><TR><TD align=center>

<A href="/cgi/search.pl?keywords=category%3Dwater&swishindex=stories.data&show_description=yes&maxdisplay=10&maxresults=50"><IMG src="/i/icon/fish.jpg" border=0></A>

<A href="/cgi/search.pl?keywords=category%3Dweather&swishindex=stories.data&show_description=yes&maxdisplay=10&maxresults=50"><IMG src="/i/icon/weather.jpg" border=0></A>

<A href="/cgi/search.pl?keywords=category%3Dmacho&swishindex=stories.data&show_description=yes&maxdisplay=10&maxresults=50"><IMG src="/i/icon/macho.jpg" border=0></A>

</TD></TR></TABLE>

(5 November 1995, Arkansas) Tenacity is often advantageous to an organism.
But combine tenacity with a lack of common sense and an excess of bravado,
and the trait may prove deleterious.

An unprecedented ten inches of rainfall had flooded rivers over their
banks.	Stephan, 27, thought that this was the perfect time to tackle Big
Piney Creek, a challenging whitewater run even at normal water levels.
Dressed in overalls and a sweatsuit, and notably lacking a life vest,
Stephan set out with three friends and two rafts "of the type obtained by
sending in Marlboro cigarette packs."

Only a dose of common sense stood between Stephan and glory.

Enroute to the Big Piney put-in, the four men were stalled at a bridge over
Indian Creek. The water was flowing 3 feet over the bridge, and they could
not drive any further.	A crowd of experienced whitewater paddlers had
gathered there to pay respectful homage to the freakishly high water. This
benevolent group implored the foolhardy party to desist. They warned the
men that Indian Creek courses through two miles of dangerous willow jungle
before joining Big Piney.

But the men would not listen to reason.	 They climbed into their
lightweight rafts, put-in, and immediately capsized. Undeterred by
continuing pleas from experienced paddlers, undaunted by the dunking, the
men launched again. They managed to stay on the surface for 200 yards
before capsizing downstream.

At this point, one man realized he was fighting a losing battle. He bowed
out, and hiked back to the bridge. Two other men climbed back into their
raft, and Stephan decided to venture onward solo in his raft. A half mile
later, the flotilla had a close encounter with a tree across the stream,
and both rafts capsized.

A search party located Stephan's body later that day.

In the final analysis, "these inexperienced and ill-prepared paddlers
ignored warnings from a group of obviously knowledgeable paddlers. The
absence of a life vest was probably the (second most) significant error."
Despite warnings, despite seeing the cold water flowing menacingly over a
bridge, and despite capsizing--Stephan chose to tackle this hazardous
river.	His tenacity was selected against, removing him from the gene pool.

In conclusion,"Warning unprepared floaters can be unproductive, but it is
worth a try."

<FONT size=-1><B>Reader Comments:</B><BR>
"Dunkin' Dumbos"<BR>
</FONT>
<P align=center>
<!--#include virtual="/inc/votebar_viewvoteonly" -->

jinja-reference: americanwhitewater.org

jinja-solicit-input:

jinja-reader-comments:



<!--#include file=nav_1995.html -->


