slug: darwin2005-04.md
jinja-title-full: 2005 Darwin Award: Failed Frame-Up

jinja-summary: Failed Frame-Up: 'Unusual' and 'complicated' is how the Missaukee County sheriff described the mysterious death of 19-year-old Christopher, who called 911 at 1:22am and calmly informed the police dispatcher that his neighbor had sta">

jinja-keywords:
jinja-tags:

jinja-modified:

jinja-og-image: https://darwinawards.com/i/death_ponders.jpeg">

jinja-authors: Wendy

jinja-date: 2005 Darwin Awards


jinja-title: Failed Frame-Up


jinja-confirmed:
jinja-status: draft
<A href="/art/mcdonnell" target="_top"><IMG src="/i/art/mcdonnell/Failed_frame-up_color.med.jpg" align="right" border="0"></A>

(19 March 2005, Michigan) "Unusual" and "complicated" is how the Missaukee
County sheriff described the mysterious death of 19-year-old Christopher.

After an evening spent imbibing large quantities of alcohol, Christopher
noticed a shortage in his liquor supply that could not be attributed to his
own depredations. He concluded that his neighbor had stolen a bottle of
booze!	He menaced the neighbor with a knife, to no avail, whereupon he
retired to his own apartment to brood about revenge.

Finally he figured out the perfect way to get back at that conniving
bottle-thief: Christopher would stab himself and blame the neighbor!

A witness saw Christopher enter the bathroom as he called 911.	He calmly
informed the dispatcher that his neighbor had stabbed him. Witnesses said
he looked fine when he emerged from the bathroom, but a moment later gouts
of blood spewed from his chest.	 Suddenly he began screaming begging for
help. The dispatcher heard a woman shout, "Why did you do this?" He
collapsed at the door of his apartment.

Deputies arrived quickly, but Christopher had already bled to death from
self-inflicted stab wounds to his chest. An autopsy determined that he had
stabbed himself in the chest twice. The first wound apparently didn't look
dangerous enough, so he tried again. The second time, the knife plunged into
his left ventricle. This wound was plenty dangerous: he had only two
minutes to live.

Christopher died in vain. His deathbed accusation of his neighbor failed,
as a witness confirmed that the neighbor was not in the apartment. All
Christopher got for revenge was an accidental death sentence.
<P align=center>
<!--#include virtual="/inc/votebar_viewvoteonly" -->

jinja-submitter: <A HREF="mailto:REMOVE-">Bill Ziegler, David Schlinkert</A>

jinja-reference: Cadillac News

jinja-solicit-input:

jinja-reader-comments:



<!--#include file=nav_2005.html -->


