slug: darwin2014-06.md
jinja-title-full: 2014 Darwin Award: Anchorman

jinja-summary: Anchorman: 18-year-old Chance Werner had recently graduated from high school and on the early hours of Sunday morning he was at Lake Allatoona celebrating with friends by playing the Shopping Cart Game...">

jinja-keywords:
jinja-tags: "water">

jinja-modified:

jinja-og-image: https://darwinawards.com/i/death_ponders.jpeg">

jinja-authors: Wendy

jinja-date: 2014 Darwin Awards


jinja-title: Anchorman


jinja-confirmed:
jinja-status: draft
<TABLE border=0 align=right><TR><TD align=center>

<A href="/cgi/search.pl?keywords=category%3Dwater&swishindex=stories.data&show_description=yes&maxdisplay=10&maxresults=50"><IMG src="/i/icon/fish.jpg" border=0></A>

</TD></TR></TABLE>

(25 May 2014, Georgia) 18-year-old Chance Werner had recently graduated
from high school and early on Sunday morning he was at Lake Allatoona
celebrating with friends by playing the Shopping Cart Game. Lake Allatoona
is a large reservoir created by damming the Etowah River in 1949. The
shoreline is lined with vacation rentals and campgrounds, as well as two
yacht clubs and a sailing club.

The Shopping Cart Game is evidently popular. News reports state that the
cart is <B>usually</B> anchored to a pole or tree at the dock. The cart is
poised on the dock, someone climbs in, and friends launch the shopping cart
off the dock and into the water. Ha! The soggy rider climbs out of the
water, the cart is reeled back in, and the game begins again.

In the wee hours of between Saturday night and Sunday morning--the timing
hints at an evening spent partying at the lake--Chance inexplicably decided
to <I>be the tree</I> and tie the cart to his belt. Chance took a chance
that did not stand a chance! He was dragged into the
water and drowned. Several hours later his body was recovered from nine
meters of water, still tied to the shopping cart.

Although Chance was a young man who had only just graduated from high
school, the editors voted to give him a Darwin Award because--as his family
says--the tragedy contains an important message they wish to share about
thinking before you act. "We have all done stupid things. Not one person
thought that this was not a good game to play." People of Earth! This is
not a good game to play. Leave that shopping cart at the mall, lest you
find yourself in the hereafter swapping stories with Chance.

READER COMMENT "Guess he really did make Anchor."

"Last Chance."

"Knot Funny."

<A href="http://www.darwinawards.com/slush/201405/pending20140527-023730.html">ORIGINAL SUBMISSION</A>

jinja-submitter: Susan

jinja-reference: <A href="http://www.news.com.au/world/north-america/teen-dies-hours-after-high-school-graduation-in-botched-shopping-trolley-game/story-fnh81jut-1226933012760">A.P., Fox News</A>

jinja-solicit-input:

jinja-reader-comments:



<!--#include file=nav_2014.html -->


